Almost all electric motors are used in conjunction
with gearboxes. The reason for this is the
electric motors produce relatively low torque.
They not particularly strong. However, they are
capable of rotating very very quickly. So
we can use a gearbox to trade off speed for
torque. Of course, there is no such thing
as a free lunch and a gearbox introduces some
inefficiency, there is some loss of power.
That power lost is in terms of heat and acoustic noise.
If you use a bicycle you are probably quite familiar
with the concept of gearing. Electric motors
are capable of spinning very very quickly but they don't produce very much torque they are kind of weak.
Now it's a bit like the problem of riding
your bicycle uphill. You want to trade off
a large number of rotations of the pedals
in order to reduce the load that you have
to exert on those pedals. You are trading
off a lot of speed for a large amount of torque.
For an electric motor it's the same thing
and as with the bicycle you have a small sprocket
at the front on the pedals, and you have a
larger sprocket on the back wheel. So for
every rotation of the electric motor, we only
have half a rotation of the output shaft of
the motor's gearbox. So the motor is spinning
quite quickly, the output shaft is rotating
rather slowly but the torque of the motor
is amplified by the gear ratio.
Here we have a motor with a single stage reduction
gearbox. We call it a reduction gearbox because
for every rotation of the motor, the output
shaft rotates less than once. When we refer
to the two sides of the gearbox we refer to
as the motor side which indicated by the subscript
M and the load side indicated the subscript
L. The ratio of the gearbox is capital G and
that's the ratio of the number teeth on the
big wheel to the number teeth on the little
wheel. And for a reduction gearbox G is greater
than one.
The output speed omega L is equal to 1 on
G times omega N. So the output shaft speed
is lower than the motor speed. The output
torque tau L is equal to G times the motor
torque tau M so the output torque is greater
than the motor torque. These are the fundamental
equations that describe the characteristics
of a gearbox. It reduces the speed and it
increases the torque.